Rate My Professors (RMP) is a review site where reviews and opinions are gathered based on a professor or an instructor. Reviews are mostly coming from students, most likely after they are done taking the course. Our research was done to analyze the data collected on professors and instructors at the City College of New York, identify different trends within the data based on the ratings and comments a professor has received. Using Python3 and its built-in framework such as Selenium and BeautifulSoup4, we were able to create an automation process that collects data and information such as the name and ID of the instructor as well as quality, difficulty and comments given by each individual student. Pandas library was also used to clean up the data and create a database that was later used to analyze the data further. We found that the reviews differed across different academic disciplines and there was a connection between the ratings and the difficulty of a course. Courses offered at the 2000 or 3000 level were perceived as more challenging by students, resulting in a lower score for the instructor. Other factors such as exam format, grading policy and the use of resources also play a significant role in ratings provided by students. To make our research more effective, we examined data from various time periods to see if the quality of a professor increased or decreased over the years. Furthermore, the data collected during the process and the insights provided can help us understand a professor’s strengths and weaknesses in connection to a particular course at the City College of New York.
